TASK LIST:

ok, early game is good.

MUST RHYME ALL SYLLABLES! allow multi-word entries too!

rhyme fixes:
    fun vs. when
    draw vs. raw
    alt vs. fault
    hog / dog

    TODO: need a quick tool to before/after syllable-equivalence changes. so i can say like, if i make these syllables rhyme, what changes? what words that previously did not rhyme become rhyming?

upgrades/abilities:
    allow player to use words multiple times

scoring:
    more points if you rhyme better..ok
    count for # words used? less == more points
    combo multiplier

problems:
    clutter. could make enemy size dependent on word length.
    flocking: enemies themselves could avoid clumping.
    kiting is too easy - tight spaces definitely make it harder
    in later game, how to encourage combos? make it obvious that combos are better? 

types of "levels":
    bullet hell-ish, binding of isaac
        enemy types:
            normal drone
            
    forced motion (ie. with lava rising, then obstacles or enemies)
    puzzle/exploration, where there are treasures to get if you can rhyme enough. multiple words can form a wall.
        maybe some time-sensitive stuff...like a treasure that goes away. yes, that's it.
        like Cut the Rope's timed stars.

enemy variables:
    speed
    syllable counts..
    same-word clumps - rings? like helsing's fire
    blocks which change words over time!!
    ** bombs! kills players and nearby enemies. so this effectively makes the player leave certain areas.

items:
    health pickups
    breakable blocks
    shape shifting - words change over time. can be a block or an enemy!
    what about letting the player move blocks around? like arrange two sets of words into equivalence classes...hmmm

    timed pickups...when the player gets close enough, spawn them with a timer.

- things that must rhyme 2 syllables?
- cluster enemies - all parts could have the same word, so you need to find many words that rhyme with it to kill it/get to the reward

- bomb drones, that will kill nearby enemies if you rhyme with them.
    select them with number keys? each number could be a weapon.

- consider...not having totally randomized levels?? could we have players find fastest paths on a single wall?
    hexagon is randomized..but each ring is fairly isolated from each other. ie. how you do on one ring has no effect on subsequent rings (except for some anticipation in positioning)

- TUTORIAL SEQUENCE:
    
    1. Two words rhyme if their syllables are the same. "Fat" rhymes with "cat"
        Type a word that rhymes with "car":
    2. You only need to rhyme the last syllable. "Cat" still rhymes with "wombat".
        Type a two syllable word that rhymes with "make". HINT: "I've made a big [blank]"
    3. It's OK if the last consonant is different, but you will get less points.
        "Start" rhymes best with "cart", but it also rhymes with "car" and "card".
        Type a word that rhymes with "shade", but the last consonant is different. HINT: "[blank] well before drinking!"
    5. Just 2 more rules!
        1) You can't type a word that's too similar. Type a word that rhymes with "waterbed" and is not "bed". HINT: "[blank], white, and blue!"
        2) Within a single round, you can't use a word you've used before. Type another word that rhymes with "waterbed" and is not "red".
    - OK that's it! Have fun.

    later on with more difficulty:
    4. You get more points if you rhyme more syllables!
        Try to rhyme both syllables of "cigar".
        HINT: "She sings and plays [blank]"

- color coding for feedback. put feedback msg above cursor.
- difficulty: sort words by frequency only. forget about syllables?

- clumps of words. "oh, I can think of a lot of words that rhyme with 'potion'! I'm gonna go to that clump"

- action mode tweaks:
    word-less rocks
    past a certain height, words will NOT respawn?
    have some cells REQUIRE 2-syls? like spelltower's numbered cells!
        this alleviates the "single-syllable cheap climb" problem

- "climb" vs mode, could be turn-based hot-seat: like relax mode, start on opposite ends of wall, goal is to get most points
    dynamics: trap the other player
    could be turn-based or real time!

- "speed" vs mode: first one to get 100 points wins, but you both choose from the same pool of words. once someone rhymes a word at all, it is removed from the "pool".
    want to recreate the feeling of the card game Speed
    FOCUS ON THIS
    center column of prompt words, one word per row
    left/right columns are p1/p2 typing space
    switch rows by pressing number key, type and enter to submit
    when one player submits a rhyming word, they get the point and the word changes on that row
    first one to 50 points wins

- endless mode:
    points per minute
    graph of points over time?

- what's my goal? to make you think of rhymes, preferably with more syllables.
    should be easy to play with

- multiple words
    I scream/ice cream
    orange/four hinge

- think:
    definitely need:
        timed mode
        turn-based
    Sequence-like battle mode?
    PvP mode? see who gets the most number of points for a single word in 1 minute?
    PvP - each person picks 10 words, other person tries to get as many points for any of those words

- need to see what kind of words are in the Moby list but not in CMU

- bonus for 2 greats in a row?
    well..sometimes you only get single-syllabe words though.
    DO NOT PROMPT SINGLE-SYLLABLE WORDS?

- alliteration bonus!
- allow user to stay on the same word? coming up with multiple rhymes could be fun..
    text twist style..
    well, this would complicate the interface/flow
- list of words at end of round.

- design idea: use the climber setup, but you need to fill a bar to take a step.
    more rhyme score == more bar.
    so, no numbers, just purely visual feedback
    you can skip words, but you sacrifice some time (may be 0.5s)
    CANCELED in favor of "wall of words with grip time" design
        but I do like the "fill up" feature of this...gives players mid-term goals

LOW PRIORITY:

- could still use the 'scorePhonemes' function to score coda matches. Like, give D/T 0.25...meh.

- "lame rhymes"
    this paragraph on wikipedia:
    "As stated above, in a perfect rhyme the last stressed vowel and all following sounds are identical in both words. If the sound preceding the stressed vowel is also identical, the rhyme is sometimes considered to be inferior and not a perfect rhyme after all.[2][3] An example of such a "super-rhyme" or "more than perfect rhyme" is the "identical rhyme", in which not only the vowels but also the onsets of the rhyming syllables are identical, as in gun and begun. Punning rhymes such are "bare" and "bear" are also identical rhymes. The rhyme may of course extend even farther back than the last stressed vowel. If it extends all the way to the beginning of the line, so that there are two lines that sound identical, then it is called a "holorhyme" ("For I scream/For ice cream")."
    obviously we need to filter out when the user just types in the word...
    but cases like gun/begun should be punished a bit? make this low priority
    punning rhymes, like bare/bear are similar cases...
    we could say, if either word's phonemes are a perfect subset of the others, then disallow the rhyme
        we could make this an option... ie. disallow "lame rhymes" like these

- we can read more about syllabification:
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sonority_hierarchy
http://ebooks.unibuc.ro/filologie/mateescu/pdf/77.pdf

DONE TASKS:

- settled on CMU database. Moby database is missing plurals ("hands"), has bunch of pointless phrases (like "bad actor"..wtf?), and has weird phoneme format
- partial score for close-consonants, like S vs. Z, T vs. D
- Difference pronunciations for same spelling, ie. “I’m so close” vs. “Close the door”
	CMU lists variants, with close(2) etc. Just check all of them

notes on http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rhyme#Types_of_rhyme

    ALLOWED:
    perfect rhymes, all genders. rhyme/sublime, sight/flight, madness/sadness
        perfect rhymes match the end vowel and all other remaining sounds. too strict, but should be a subset of our rhymes.

    syllabic: last syllables rhyme, but are not stressed. pitter/patter - low scores
    imperfect: rhymed syllable are mixed stressed/not stressed. wing/caring - low scores
        the CMU DB doesn't contain stress info, so we can't distinguish between syllabic/imperfect/perfect rhymes.
    allow some forced rhymes..
        forced: one/thumb, green/fiend
        actually, these match vowels, not sure how these are diff from slant rhymes
    assonance/slant rhymes: matching vowels only. ALLOW THESE!! shake/hate

    NOT ALLOWED:
    consonance: rabies/robbers
    half rhyme: bent/ant - eh..don't allow these
    semi rhymes: like bend/ending. but do allow bending/ending
    pararhyme: tell/tall
    alliteration: short ship..nope. maybe another game heh

    SCORING DESIGN:

    matching consonants alone do not count, ie. love/move
    but if syllables rhyme, then matching consonants give bonus points. shake/hate < shake/bake

    what phonemes constitute a vowel?
    bottle/ration clearly don't rhyme at all, but they end in the same AH vowel..so sometimes vowels must be combined
        with the last consonant..
    maybe we need to parse syllables from the phonemes, and score per-syllable?
        AH N does not match AH L (ration/bottle)
        but, EY K does match EY T (shake/hate)

    hmm seems like certain cons-phonemes MODIFY proceeding vowel-phonemes..
        L, N, NG, R

    OK I'm pretty happy with what I have right now. 

    lowest score for any rhyme at all is 1.0. We can't have 0.5

- need to read/think about about syllables vs. phonemes..
    syllables, much more intuitive
        can give feedback like, "3 syllables rhymed! AWESOME!"
    broccoli/monopoly should score higher than fashion/ration.
    And hollow/bottle should score low, but non-zero <-- eh forget this. it's not a very convincing rhyme.

    phonemes are not the most accurate either, since still/real should be a 0-rhyme. But they do end on the L phoneme.

- refactored code to use proper linguistics names (turns out i rediscovered syllabic consonants, and had the same listed as the most common ones)
    I no longer give 0.5 for matcing syllabic consonants, except for M, and this feels better
- combos
- friendliness vs. emptiness consider allowing AH S == IH S
    abortionist vs. pessimist
- think about combo system...too powerful?
    yes, ditching it
- filter out really obscure words: get some source of words and mine it.
    done using Moby word list
- debug assert for 'p'
- debug assert for c, co, cor, corn
    fixed, there was a slight bug in the code i fixed at some pt
- debug: obsessions/recessions - adding S should not bump your score up by 4...
    OK redid the bonus system - no longer assuming floor gives me number of syllables..heh
- player feedback:
    0.0 = FAIL
    1.0 = OK
    1.5 = Good
    2.0 = Good
    2.5 = Great
    3.0 = Great
    3.5+ = EXCELLENT!
    in the game, but slightly different
- use stars to rate rhymes? better than word feedback
    eh..no, stars + points would get confusing.. but better VISUAL feedback wouldn't hurt, just don't tie it to some quantity
- prevent lame rhymes and just repeating the word
    done, just checking substrings
- don't drop when they hit enter - flash the error instead
- "relax" mode: predefined wall, no lava or grip time, but words will not respawn. So you have to optimize your path, game ends when you're stuck.
    most like Spelltower's puzzle mode
- "action" mode: lava, grip, rocks, hazards, etc. Goal is to get to the top. Also track high score
    * jump two cells for 2-syl rhymes?
- difficulty rankings..must pre-compute.
    - compute difficulty of words by mining the database for total score?
    mine wikipedia for frequency?
- audio feedback as you type
    need better sounds too (can still use the cha-ching sounds for ENTER)
- tweaks for all modes:
    * disallow reusing same words, like Spelltower.
        this creates the "1st & goal" effect
    * time-trials - get to the top ASAP
        i think this is the best mode.
- ok, this climbing thing is actually not that fun. i think we need some cooommmmbbbbbbaaaatttttt!!!! yeah, it's not really working the way spelltower and puzzlejuice work. The spelling mechanic
    is pretty intimately tied to the spatial aspects of those games, and the interest comes from the spelling + spatial reasoning. In my game, they're pretty separated.
    i think we should try the swarming action game approach! the sight of a word chasing you, but then you smacking it down with a rhyme is pretty funny. there's also a bit of spatial fun,
    such as going into a cluster of words that rhyme with "cat", then typing "cat" and completely wiping out that cluster. That's something we don't have in the climbing game! Sort of
    an area-of-effect mechanic.
    what sort of meaningful powerups/stats could we have? 
- consider softening the "too similar" restriction
    ok, now amp vs. ramp is OK, but amp vs. amps is not, and raise vs. raised is not
- treasure chests that you need to rhyme two syllables?
- timed sequences where you have to rhyme 3 words in a row in order to get a positive reward... like a treasure chest lock...
    how to do this with existing ideas?
    just have the reward behind blocks, and it goes away after time.
